**Model Structure**

Since we continued our model from the Curiosity Modeling project, we kept the main sigs the same. When thinking about structuring our game, we knew we needed at least a Player sig. Each Player has two hands, which we initially decided to represent with a Hand sig. However, we noticed that the Hand sig in our Curiosity Modeling project did not have any key importance because the only field in it was an Int representing the fingers on each hand. In our new model, we condensed this and added Int fields that represent hand1 and hand2 to the Player sig. A tradeoff of this is that to indicate a dead hand (with no fingers) or when a player has lost (if both of its hands have no fingers), the condition relies on if a hand has zero fingers rather than if a Hand sig exists. This became a central point of debugging for us when we were writing validTurn because we ran into issues when the fingers on a hand would exceed the amount possible or if the attacking (current) hand was trying to attack a dead hand. However, it was also beneficial to us because it meant we could “bring back” a dead hand through the validSplit predicate by simply shifting the distribution of total fingers across both hands. In our new model, we also have a field in the Player sig to represent whether or not it is the player’s turn, dependent on a boolean value of 0 or 1. This was something we fixed from our Curiosity Model, with the help of Temporal Forge. Our model runs with the initial state being where each player has only one finger on both of their hands. In every subsequent turn, the player can either make a valid move or a valid split and the turns switches between the players in the game. 

**Scope and Limitations** 

We assume that players don’t have to act rationally or make the best move each time. Sometimes players will split their fingers or combine their fingers when the most optimal move would be to attack the target player and win the game. Another choice we made for our model was to allow a player to “kill” one of their own hands through “splitting” or redistributing their fingers. In our game, a player could hypothetically move all of their fingers to one hand, leaving the other hand with no fingers left. Realistically, this is a smart move to make in the game, and it is not often a rule in most games of Chopsticks. There is no strategy to our game if both players are not trying to make the most optimal move each turn, which means the game can end very quickly. 

**Goals**

Our goals did not change from our proposal. We met our foundation goal of implementing our project with Temporal Forge, a shift from when we used Relational Forge for Curiosity Modeling. We also successfully implemented the traditional two-player game with a maximum of ten fingers, a correction that we made temporary adjustments for in Curiosity Modeling. We also met our target goal of implementing “splitting”, where players can redistribute the total number of fingers they have across both hands. We thought this would potentially be an unrealistic goal, but when we actually thought about the concept behind it, it was something we had considered in Curiosity Modeling. The strategy we used was to think about the total number of fingers and ensure that it doesn’t change from one state to the next but that each hand’s number of fingers were guaranteed to change. This was a lot easier to do without having the Hand sig in our model. We did not reach our reach goals, to create a visualizer and to add more variations to the traditional game. However, we found that the Sterling visualizer was sufficient enough to help us make our model, so we did not see a need to create our own. 

**Visualization**

The Sterling visualizer shows a Player sig, represented as a block that has three arrows pointing to three Ints. One Int represents the fingers on hand1, another Int represents the fingers on hand2, and the other Int is either a 0 or 1 to indicate whether or not it is that player’s turn. The “turn” field toggles between 0 and 1. We use the time steps series to visualize the game going from one turn / player to the next. 

**Contributors: kwisialo, kmao5, iihenatu**